I'm a textile artist most widely known
for starting the yarn-bombing movement
yarn mommy is when you take knitted or
crocheted material out into the urban
environment graffiti style or more
specifically without permission and
unsanctioned but when I started this
over 10 years ago I didn't have a word
for it I didn't have any ambitious
notions about it I had no visions of
grandeur all I wanted to see was
something warm and fuzzy and human-like
on the cold steel gray facade that I
looked at every day so I wrapped the
door handle I call this the alpha piece
little did I know that this tiny piece
would change the course of my life so
clearly the reaction was interesting it
intrigued me and I thought what else
could I do could I do something like in
the public domain that we get the same
reaction so I wrapped the stop sign pole
near my house the reaction was wild it
was like people would park their cars
and get out of their cars and stare at
it and scratch their heads and stare at
it and take pictures of it and take
pictures next to it and all of that was
really exciting to me and I wanted to do
every stop sign pole in the neighborhood
and the more that I did the stronger the
reaction so at this point I'm smitten
I'm hooked this was all seductive I
found my new passion in the urban
environment was my playground so this is
some of my early work I was very curious
about this idea of enhancing the
ordinary the mundane even the ugly and
not taking away its identity or its
functionality but just giving it a well
tailored suit out of knitting and this
was fun for me it was really fun to take
inanimate objects and have them come to
life so I think we all see the humor in
this but I was at a point where I wanted
to take it seriously I wanted to analyze
it I wanted to know why I was letting
this take over my life why I was
passionate about it why were other
people were acting so strongly to it and
I realized something we don't live in
this fast-paced digital world we still
crave and desire something that's
relatable I think we've all become
desensitized
by our overdeveloped cities that we live
in and and billboards and advertisements
and giant parking lots and we don't even
complain about that stuff anymore
so when you stumble upon a soft sign
pole that's wrapped in knitting and and
it seems so out of place and then it
gradually weirdly you find a connection
to it that is the moment that is the
moment I love and that is the moment I
love to share with others so at this
point my curiosity grew it went from the
fire hydrants and the stop sign poles -
what else can I do with this material
could I do something big in large scale
and insurmountable so that's when the
bus happened this was a real game
changer for me I always have a soft spot
my heart for this one at this point
people were recognizing my work but
there wasn't much out there that was
wrapped in knitting that was a large
scale and this definitely was the first
city bus to be wrapped in knitting so at
this point I'm experiencing or am
witnessing something interesting I may
have started yarn bombing but I
certainly don't own it anymore
it had reached global status people from
all over the world were doing this and I
know this because I would travel to
certain parts of the world I'd never
been to and I'd stumble upon a stop sign
Pole and I knew I didn't wrap it so as I
pursued my own goals with my art this is
a lot of my recent work so was yarn
bombing yarn bombing was also growing
and that experience showed me the hidden
power of this craft and and showed me
that there was this common language I
had with the rest of the world it was
through this granny hobby this
unassuming hobby that I found
commonality with people that I never
thought I'd have a connection with so as
I tell my story today I'd also like to
convey to you that hidden power can be
found in the most unassuming places and
we all possess skills that are just
waiting to be discovered if you think
about our hands these tools that are
connected to us and what they're capable
of doing and building houses and
furniture and painting giant murals and
most of the time we hold a controller or
a cell phone and I
totally guilty of this as well but if
you think about it what would happen if
you put those things down what would you
make what would you create with your own
hands a lot of people think that I am a
master knitter but I actually couldn't
knit a sweater to save my life but I did
something interesting with knitting that
had never been done before I also wasn't
supposed to be an artist in the sense
that I wasn't formally trained to do
this so I'm a math major actually so I
didn't think this was in the cards for
me but I also know that I didn't stumble
upon this and when this happened to me I
held on tight I fought for it and I'm
proud to say that I am working artists
today so as we ponder the future know
that your future might not be so
seamless and one day you might be as
bored as I was and knit a door handle to
change your world forever thank you